[Music]
you know something weird happened to me
today my friend and I sneezed at the
exact same time in all my years never
have I sneezed simultaneously with
someone my surprised and curious brain
then start to wonder what if everyone in
the world all seven and a half billion
of us sneezed at the exact same time
worst case scenario there may be some
accidents on the road after all your
eyes automatically closed whenever you
sneeze by the way do you know why that
is experts aren't sure but they believe
it's your body's natural reflex to keep
all that germy stuff that's flying out
of your nose from getting in your eyes
and you know sometimes some things come
flying out with the sneeze all I'll say
is clean-up on aisle five or the back of
that guy's head this worldwide achoo
would be pretty loud too especially for
those who happen to be at a stadium or
other packed area on international
sneeze day as a matter of fact a
particularly thunderous sneeze can peak
at 90 decibels
that's as loud as a lawnmower Hey what
type of a sneeze er are you stick around
to find out I have a fun little test for
you anyway if you've ever scared your
cat because of a boisterous sneeze then
imagine all the birds flying from the
trees woodland creatures scurrying into
the forest when the whole world lets out
such a sound
speaking of stadiums you'd likely see a
cloud form since one sneeze contains up
to 40,000 droplets of mucus and all
those germs
I imagine many people would be sick with
the cold or flu the next day of course
it's not daylight all the same time
around the world so just think of the
people who'd be woken up in the middle
of the night or if you're watching TV
when it happens the news anchor would be
stopped mid-sentence I'll bet this event
would go down in history people would
ask each other where were you on the day
the whole world sneezed in all reality
nothing major would probably happen if
all of us sneezed at the same time but I
do hope that shortly afterward you'd
hear a bless you salud the
in tight whatever the French say or
wherever you might be and whatever you
might say after someone sneeze it's okay
I won't let my brain wander too far on
that one but here are some other things
I found out during my 4:00 a.m. Google
search on everything there is to know
about sneezing sterna to tation it's a
scientific word for sneezing yeah throw
that out there during your next small
talk sesh with a cafe barista Hey bless
your sterna to tation there pal
sneezing is good for you ever had
problems with your computer only to
realize restarting fixed everything
that's what a sneeze does for your nasal
cavity it resets it the mucus that comes
shooting out can also be an indicator of
your overall health if it's clear that's
good if it's green yellow or brown you
might have an infection they'll need to
be seen by a doctor does your heart
really stop when you sneeze well the
rhythm certainly changes when you let
out a big one your heart doesn't
actually stop beating that would be
scary
how does milk come out of your nose and
the sneeze wait has that happened to you
it's possible it's because your nose and
throat are closely connected if you're
not done swallowing whatever you're
eating or drinking when you sneeze it
might make its way out of your nose why
do we cover up when we sneeze
well first are you doing it the right
way don't sneeze into your hands do it
into a tissue or your upper sleeve wide
a bit out because once these carries
about 100,000 germs and the louder the
sneeze the faster the air moves
sometimes up to a hundred miles an hour
it can also project mucus up to five
feet away from your body ooh now that
global sneeze sounds really messy it's
it okay if I hold it in no don't do that
holding in a sneeze can damage blood
vessels in your eyes and brain how so
why do we sneeze
well sneezing is the brains way of
ordering dust dander and pollen out of
your nose and here's a bonus question
have you ever wondered why you sneeze in
multiple
times that simply how many tries it took
for your nose and your body to clear out
whatever was irritating you
hey will they work on my boss if it's
not all out after one sneeze brace
yourself
more are coming and you'll be better for
it maybe some people sneeze really loud
but others are quiet well it's not set
in stone but usually bigger people that
is ones with larger chest cavities
creates louder sneezes different nostril
sizes can also affect the volume of the
Snead's the next time you hear someone
let out a quiet little
casually check out the size of their
nostrils do the same thing when you hear
a hearty sue scientists say there's a
direct correlation in fact according to
Patti a would a body language expert and
lead of the benadryl sneeze analysis yes
there is such a thing there are four
types of sneezers in this world let's
check them out and see where you fall
let me know down in the comments which
type you are number one the nice or
sensitive sneezer this is a quiet sneeze
you know the type they politely cover
their nose and mouth when they feel one
coming on they're naturally nurturing
and don't like inconveniencing others
they're subtle sneeze might be followed
by a quick excuse me number two the be
right sneezer
these people are methodical and
everything they do has to be just so
they too will cover up when they sneeze
but they're less concerned about how it
affects those around them they're only
interested in the correct execution of
said sneeze as long as they do it the
right way and don't spread germs all is
right in their mind three the
get-it-done sneezer efficiency it's
their middle name they want it out and
they want it out now the get-it-done
sneezers have no time to waste when it
comes to nose irritants they have more
important things to do moving on number
four the enthusiastic sneezer aha if
sneezing were a sport these guys would
be cheerleaders they're charismatic and
a blast to be around quite literally if
they feel a tickle in their nose
when their brain tells their nose to get
something out everyone around them will
know it their sneezes are grandiose and
loud now if you're still not sure which
category you fall into ask your family
or friends they'll know also have them
observe you in different situations
since most people sneeze differently in
public versus private sneezing in a
restaurant is naturally going to sound
different than sneezing at home okay
last flash round of cool sneezing fats
other than the obvious stuff like dust
dander pollen and pepper what are some
of the weirdest things that make people
sneeze the Sun yup that's right
a photic sneeze reflex happens when we
walk outside and take a good look at our
closest star or the light it projects so
thank the Sun next time you go for an
outdoor walk first thing in the morning
only to be interrupted by a fit of
sneezing strong emotions happiness
sadness and anger are all emotions that
affect our whole body
sneezing included so if you're ever
crying walking on cloud 9 or seeing red
and you let out a big one remember that
it's normal your body is just doing its
thing spicy food here's a big term
gustatory rhinitis that's a fancy way of
saying an inflammation of the glands in
your nose caused by something you eat or
smell say spicy foods tends to get the
sweat glands going sneezing is quite
common cold air ready for another big
term peripheral vasoconstriction it
sounds like some magical spell
expecto rate mucus IAM but it basically
means most of the heat in your body
transfers to your nose when it's cold
your nose becomes terribly dry making
you more prone to let out a big achoo
staying hydrated during the winter
should help you avoid it hot showers if
you find yourself sneezing in the shower
the fragrance in your shampoo
conditioner or body wash may be the
cause if you start sneezing before
scrubbing you may be allergic to your
tap water more specifically you could be
reacting strongly to the chlorine in it
dark chocolate remember the photic
sneeze caused by the Sun dark chocolate
triggers the same sneeze in about
one-quarter of the population you have
genetics to thank for that one
carbonated drinks we all have a TRP a
one receptor on our tongue when do we
drink a bubbly beverage the carbon
dioxide activates that receptor when
many receptors are switched on at once
our body produces more saliva and lets
out a sneeze or sometimes a cough bottom
line remember this advice from Elsa in
frozen when you got a sneeze it's best
to let it go hey if you learn something
new today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend and here are some
other cool videos I think you'll enjoy
just click to the left or right and
remember stay on the bright side of life